# Week 9 — CI/CD with CodePipeline, CodeBuild and CodeDeploy

CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment/Delivery) is a software engineering approach that involves automating the processes of building, testing, and deploying software applications. AWS provides a suite of tools to implement CI/CD, including CodePipeline, CodeBuild, and CodeDeploy.

CodePipeline is a fully managed continuous delivery service that automates the build, test, and deployment of your code every time there is a code change, based on the release process model you define.

CodeBuild is a fully managed build service that compiles source code, runs tests, and produces software packages that are ready to deploy. You can use CodeBuild to build and test code in a variety of languages, including Java, Python, Ruby, and Node.js.

CodeDeploy is a fully managed deployment service that automates software deployments to a variety of compute services, including Amazon EC2, AWS Fargate, AWS Lambda, and your on-premises servers. With CodeDeploy, you can deploy applications in a consistent, reliable, and repeatable way, while minimizing downtime and reducing deployment errors.

By using these three services together, you can set up a fully automated CI/CD pipeline that can build, test, and deploy your code changes with just a few clicks, while ensuring that your application is always available and up-to-date.

# CREATING CODEPIPELINE

1. Choose Pipeline Settings:

* Pipeline name cruddur-backend-fargate.
* Select service role to create a new service role.(role name will be auto generated by aws)
* Select allow AWS CodePipline to create a service role so it can be used with this new pipline.
* Advanced Settings leave as default.
* Click next

2 Add Source Stage:

* Select GitHub as the Source Provider and create a GitHub connection. (Connection name Cruddur(provide a connection name)
* Select the repo that you want to create the pipeline for and this will provide you witha number in Connect to Github in the tab Github Apps. (click on connect)
* You will be redirected back to the page for to add source stage and the Connection tab will be auto generated with repo to connect if not select manually.
* Repository name select the repository that you just added.
* Branch name add the branch you want to trigger in this case prod
* Change detectection options select start the pipeline on the source code change.
* Output artifact format leave as CodePipline default.
* Click next

3 Add Build Stage:
*create this after you have create codebuild you will to edit the pipline in codebuild.

* Add stage, stage name --> build and click on Add stage.
* Click on Edit actions.
* Action name --> bake.
* Action provider select --> AWS CodeBuild.
* Region select the region that your are using in thw aws account.
* Input artifacts select ImageDefinition.
* Project name select project name cruddur-backend-flask-bake-image.
* Build type select single build.
* Variable namespace leave blank.
* Output artifacts add ImageDefinition to the tab.

4. Add Deploy Stage:

* Select Amazon ECS as the Deploy Provider.
* Region select your region.
* Choose the Cluster and Service name.
* Click next.

5. Create Pipeline:

* Review the pipeline details and click Create Pipeline.

# CODEBUILD:

1. Create Build Project:

* Give a project name and description.
* Enable build badge and disable build limit.
* Select GitHub as the Source Provider and create a GitHub connection.
* Select the repository and branch you want to create the pipeline for.
* Select "Pull merged requests" as the Event Type.
* Choose Amazon Linux 2 as the Operating System.
* Select "Managed image" as the Environment Image.
* Enable "Privileged" to allow building Docker images.
* Create a new service role and increase the timeout to 0 hours and 20 minutes.
* Select "Use a buildspec file" and add the path to the buildspec file.
* Select "No artifacts" as the Type.

2. Create Inline Policy:

* Create an inline policy for the IAM role "build-crudder-service-role".
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "ECRRepositoryPermissions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability",
                "ecr:GetDownloadUrlForLayer",
                "ecr:GetAuthorizationToken",
                "ecr:GetRepositoryPolicy",
                "ecr:DescribeRepositories",
                "ecr:DescribeImages",
                "ecr:ListImages",
                "ecr:PutImage",
                "ecr:PutImageTagMutability",
                "ecr:UploadLayerPart",
                "ecr:CompleteLayerUpload",
                "ecr:InitiateLayerUpload"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:ecr:region:account-id:repository/repository-name"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```
3. Create BuildSpec YAML File:
*aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/backend-flask/buildspec.yml

* Create a buildspec.yaml file in the backend-flask directory of your project.
```
# Buildspec runs in the build stage of your pipeline.
version: 0.2
phases:
  install:
    runtime-versions:
      docker: 20
    commands:
      - echo "cd into $CODEBUILD_SRC_DIR/backend"
      - cd $CODEBUILD_SRC_DIR/backend-flask
      - aws ecr get-login-password --region $AWS_DEFAULT_REGION | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin $IMAGE_URL
  build:
    commands:
      - echo Build started on `date`
      - echo Building the Docker image...
      - docker build -f Dockerfile.prod -t backend-flask .
      - docker tag $REPO_NAME $IMAGE_URL/$REPO_NAME
  post_build:
    commands:
      - echo Build completed on `date`
      - echo Pushing the Docker image..
      - docker push $IMAGE_URL/$REPO_NAME
      - cd $CODEBUILD_SRC_DIR
      - echo "imagedefinitions.json > [{\"name\":\"$CONTAINER_NAME\",\"imageUri\":\"$IMAGE_URL/$REPO_NAME\"}]" > imagedefinitions.json
      - printf "[{\"name\":\"$CONTAINER_NAME\",\"imageUri\":\"$IMAGE_URL/$REPO_NAME\"}]" > imagedefinitions.json

env:
  variables:
    AWS_ACCOUNT_ID: 517899574827
    AWS_DEFAULT_REGION: us-east-1
    CONTAINER_NAME: backend-flask
    IMAGE_URL: 517899574827.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
    REPO_NAME: backend-flask:latest
artifacts:
  files:
    - imagedefinitions.json
```
4. Create Pull Request:

* Create a pull request and merge it to the production branch to trigger the CodeBuild pipeline.

5. Check Build Logs:

* Check the build logs in the CodeBuild console to see if the build was successful.
